h2. 2.0.10, released 12/04/2011

* Fix issue with TrackingCategory#to_xml

h2. 2.0.9, released 12/04/2011

* Improve handling of ApiExceptions

h2. 2.0.8, released 14/02/2011

* Add support for new undocumented organisation attributes

h2. 2.0.7, released 09/12/2010

* Bug fixes

h2. 2.0.6, released 14/11/2010

* Bug fixes

h2. 2.0.5, released 21/10/2010

* Add support for credit notes.  Thanks to malclocke and wasabhi for their contributions

h2. 2.0.4, released 29/09/2010

* Use bundler for dependency management

h2. 2.0.3, released 29/09/2010

* Fix issue caused by Xero updating the Tracking Category XML structure

h2. 2.0.2, released 23/08/2010

* Xero Api version 2.0

h2. 1.0.5, released 25/09/2009

* This will be the final release before switching to the Xero API version 2.0
* Allow multiple tracking options per line item

h2. 1.0.4, released 13/08/2009

* Auto-assign Contact#contact_id and Invoice#invoice_id on creation of either of these records.
* Add Xero::Gateway#build_contact and Xero::Gateway#build_invoice factory methods to create Contact/Invoice objects associated with the gateway.
* Add Contact#save method to create/update a contact record based on if it has a contact_id or contact_number.
* Add Invoice#save method to create (insert only currently supported by Xero API) the invoice.
* Add #valid? method to each model class to validate it's contents with the minimum required by the API (without calling the API).
* Add useful API constants throughout the library.
* Allow Invoice and LineItem to auto-calculate line_amount, sub_total, total_tax and total fields. Existing setters for these fields remain (for backwards compatability) but will be deprecated in the future.
* Create XeroGateway::AccountList class to make working with the accounts response more powerful and faster (as it caches the last result).
* Add :updated_after parameter to XeroGateway::Gateway#get_contacts
* Add XeroGateway::Gateway#update_contacts
* Add XeroGateway::Gateway#create_invoices

h2. 1.0.3, released 09/12/2008

* Major refactorings to DRY out gateway.rb
* Removed all messages classes in favour of invoice.to_xml and Invoice.from_xml(element)
* Added unit tests for the handing of errors from Xero

h2. 1.0.2, released 04/12/2008

* Added implementation of GET /api.xro/1.0/tracking


h2. 1.0.1, released 02/12/2008

* Added implementation of GET /api.xro/1.0/accounts
* Replaced Invoice.id, Contact.id etc with Invoice.invoice_id, Contact.contact_id to avoid Object.id errors


h2. 1.0.0, released 01/12/2008

* Initial release, including:
* PUT /api.xro/1.0/contact
* GET /api.xro/1.0/contact
* GET /api.xro/1.0/contacts
* PUT /api.xro/1.0/invoice
* GET /api.xro/1.0/invoice
* GET /api.xro/1.0/invoices
